README.md, before:

# Fizzy Feature Selection Tool

Fizzy is a subset selection tool that uses [FEAST](http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~gbrown/fstoolbox/) in the background to run feature selection. Fizzy processes [BIOM](http://biom-format.org/) and mapping files, which are a standard in metagenomics data analysis. `fizzy` will run feature selection on taxanomic abundances obtained from the biom file given a set of categorical labels obtained form the the mapping file.  

# Installation and Dependencies

You need to install the [PyFeast](https://github.com/EESI/PyFeast) feature selection library in order to run the tools in Fizzy; however, PyFeast has its own dependencies - namely FEAST. Install the [MIToolbox](https://github.com/Craigacp/MIToolbox) and [FEAST](https://github.com/Craigacp/FEAST) prior to installing PyFeast. For example, you may need to do
```shell
  git clone https://github.com/Craigacp/MIToolbox.git
  cd MIToolbox
  make 
  sudo make install
  cd ../
  git clone https://github.com/Craigacp/FEAST.git
  cd FEAST
  make
  sudo make install
  cd ../
  git clone https://github.com/EESI/PyFeast.git
  cd PyFeast
  python setup.py build 
  sudo python setup.py install 
```

The above code will install all of the dependencies. Installing `fizzy` requires that you have root access because it is copied to `/usr/local/bin/`. Run `make` at the commandline. Make sure that all of the feature selection methods are compiled with FEAST. Note that this will require you to check the `Makefile` of FEAST.  

# Options 

* `-l`, `--label`: name of column of the mapping file that indicates the labels
* `-n`, `--select`: number of taxonomic features to select
* `-f`, `--fs-method`: Feature selection method. Available: CIFE CMIM CondMI, Condred ICAP JMI MIM MIFS mRMR
* `-i`, `--input-file`: biom format file
* `-m`, `--map-file`: TSV mapping file
* `-o`, `--ouput-file`: output file where selected taxonimic IDs are saved
* `-j`, `--json`: save the file in JSON not TSV format (TSV if the option is not set)
Getting help with `fizzy`:
```bash 
  fizzy -h
```

# General Usage Example

A general useage example for Fizzy would be something along the lines of
```bash
  fizzy -i my-data.biom -o results.txt -m mapping-file.txt -f JMI -l BODY-SITE -n 100
```
where `BODY-SITE` is a column in the mapping file. The output file is save in JSON format with the fields that are the classes and a key called `Features`. The `Features` key contains the OTUs that were selected as relevant. Each of the class keys contains the average abundance of the OTUs that were selected. 

Also, check out the [IPython notebook](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/EESI/Fizzy/blob/master/test/Fizzy-Notebook.ipynb) for a general Fizzy usage example. 

# Credits

* [Calvin Morrison](http://mutantturkey.com/)
* [Gregory Ditzler](http://gregoryditzler.com)
* [Gail Rosen](http://www.ece.drexel.edu/gailr/)

Commit message:

converted average abundance to average relative abundance

README.md, after:

# Fizzy Feature Selection Tool

Fizzy is a subset selection tool that uses [FEAST](http://www.cs.man.ac.uk/~gbrown/fstoolbox/) in the background to run feature selection. Fizzy processes [BIOM](http://biom-format.org/) and mapping files, which are a standard in metagenomics data analysis. `fizzy` will run feature selection on taxanomic abundances obtained from the biom file given a set of categorical labels obtained form the the mapping file.  

# Installation and Dependencies

You need to install the [PyFeast](https://github.com/EESI/PyFeast) feature selection library in order to run the tools in Fizzy; however, PyFeast has its own dependencies - namely FEAST. Install the [MIToolbox](https://github.com/Craigacp/MIToolbox) and [FEAST](https://github.com/Craigacp/FEAST) prior to installing PyFeast. For example, you may need to do
```shell
  git clone https://github.com/Craigacp/MIToolbox.git
  cd MIToolbox
  make 
  sudo make install
  cd ../
  git clone https://github.com/Craigacp/FEAST.git
  cd FEAST
  make
  sudo make install
  cd ../
  git clone https://github.com/EESI/PyFeast.git
  cd PyFeast
  python setup.py build 
  sudo python setup.py install 
```

The above code will install all of the dependencies. Installing `fizzy` requires that you have root access because it is copied to `/usr/local/bin/`. Run `make` at the commandline. Make sure that all of the feature selection methods are compiled with FEAST. Note that this will require you to check the `Makefile` of FEAST.  

# Options 

* `-l`, `--label`: name of column of the mapping file that indicates the labels
* `-n`, `--select`: number of taxonomic features to select
* `-f`, `--fs-method`: Feature selection method. Available: CIFE CMIM CondMI, Condred ICAP JMI MIM MIFS mRMR
* `-i`, `--input-file`: biom format file
* `-m`, `--map-file`: TSV mapping file
* `-o`, `--ouput-file`: output file where selected taxonimic IDs are saved
* `-j`, `--json`: save the file in JSON not TSV format (TSV if the option is not set)
Getting help with `fizzy`:
```bash 
  fizzy -h
```

# General Usage Example

A general useage example for Fizzy would be something along the lines of
```bash
  fizzy -i my-data.biom -o results.txt -m mapping-file.txt -f JMI -l BODY-SITE -n 100
```
where `BODY-SITE` is a column in the mapping file. The output file is save in JSON format with the fields that are the classes and a key called `Features`. The `Features` key contains the OTUs that were selected as relevant. Each of the class keys contains the average relative abundance of the OTUs that were selected. The user has contol over the output format (either TSV or JSON) by setting, or not setting the `json` flag. 

Also, check out the [IPython notebook](http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/EESI/Fizzy/blob/master/test/Fizzy-Notebook.ipynb) for a general Fizzy usage example. 

# Credits

* [Calvin Morrison](http://mutantturkey.com/)
* [Gregory Ditzler](http://gregoryditzler.com)
* [Gail Rosen](http://www.ece.drexel.edu/gailr/)
